# Focus Areas

The following focus areas are the types of projects the City intends to encourage through this program:

* **Mobility:** Sacramento recognizes autonomous, connected, shared, and electric vehicles as the next frontier of transportation. How might we encourage this type of innovation in Sacramento and ensure that equity is embedded in the deployment of these technologies?
* **Clean Technology and Sustainability:** The City of Sacramento has been a leader in our region in moving towards sustainability and livability. How might we support clean and sustainable initiatives that help Sacramento become a city where sustainability is accessible to all?
* **Health IT and Life Sciences:** As the medical field becomes more innovative and global information sharing becomes more accessible, so will means of protecting and sharing patient and medical data. How might we grow and test programs and technologies that improve public health, patient data security and accessibility, and equity of access to all citizens?
* **Food Systems:** Our region has been an agricultural powerhouse for centuries, boasting a year-round growing season, ideal climate and a mouth-watering bounty of crops. How might we capitalize on our location and support urban agriculture and food tech startups and development?
* **Internet of Things \(IoT\) and Cybersecurity:** Cybersecurity is an increasingly important field which touches every aspect of technology, especially with the myriad of smart and connected devices being developed. How might we take advantage of this opportunity and develop a trained workforce with the skills to stay ahead in this increasingly important field?
* **Government and Civic Technology:** In the state of California, you will not find a city with a higher concentration of government services – whether City, County, State, or Federal – than Sacramento. This presents an opportunity for developments in government and civic technology which look to optimize public sector functions to help improve the quality of life for residents. How might we integrate innovations like blockchain technology to make government operations more efficient and effective?
* **Workforce Development:** How can we ensure equity of access for students throughout the city to quality programming and resources to help them develop the skills they will need to be competitive for jobs in emerging technology fields? How might we we re-train a workforce that may be displaced by incoming technologies \(e.g. Autonomous Vehicles, increased movement from paper to paperless, automation in factories, utilization of new technologies in industries, etc.\)?
* **Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship:** Social entrepreneurs are developing new technologies and business models to tackle the most intractable urban challenges such as homelessness, poverty, and infant mortality. How might we further support an ecosystem of social innovation and entrepreneurship to bring new solutions to scale?

The preceding focus areas are intended to serve as inspiration and guidance. Applicants may be creative in their proposed concepts, but should not substantially deviate from these focus areas.

